---
layout: post
title: "[python] Integrating Flask-SQLAlchemy with Flask-Migrate for database migrations"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-26
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

When developing a Flask application that requires database functionalities, it is common to use Flask-SQLAlchemy as the Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool. However, as the application evolves, you might need to make changes to the database schema, which would require performing database migrations. This is where Flask-Migrate comes in handy.

Flask-Migrate is an extension that provides a simple way to handle database migrations in Flask applications. It works seamlessly with Flask-SQLAlchemy, making it easy to manage and apply database schema changes.

In this tutorial, we'll walk through the steps to integrate Flask-SQLAlchemy with Flask-Migrate for handling database migrations.

## Table of Contents
- [Setting up Flask-SQLAlchemy](#setting-up-flask-sqlalchemy)
- [Installing Flask-Migrate](#installing-flask-migrate)
- [Creating the migration repository](#creating-the-migration-repository)
- [Generating the initial migration script](#generating-the-initial-migration-script)
- [Applying database migrations](#applying-database-migrations)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Setting up Flask-SQLAlchemy

First, we need to set up Flask-SQLAlchemy in our Flask application. This involves configuring the SQLAlchemy database URI and creating the SQLAlchemy object.

Here's an example of setting up Flask-SQLAlchemy in your Flask application:

```python
from flask import Flask
from flask_sqlalchemy import SQLAlchemy

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config['SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI'] = 'sqlite:///your-database.db'
db = SQLAlchemy(app)
```

Replace `'sqlite:///your-database.db'` with the appropriate database URI for your application.

## Installing Flask-Migrate

To install Flask-Migrate, use the following command:

```
pip install Flask-Migrate
```

## Creating the migration repository

Now that Flask-SQLAlchemy is set up, we can create the migration repository. This repository contains the migration scripts generated by Flask-Migrate.

To create the migration repository, run the following command in your terminal:

```
flask db init
```

This will create a `migrations` folder in your project directory.

## Generating the initial migration script

After setting up the migration repository, we can generate the initial migration script. This script contains the current state of the database schema.

To generate the initial migration script, run the following command:

```
flask db migrate -m "initial migration"
```

This command will analyze the models defined in your Flask application and generate a migration script based on the changes.

## Applying database migrations

Finally, we can apply the database migrations to update the database schema.

To apply the migrations, run the following command:

```
flask db upgrade
```

This command will execute the migration script and update the database schema accordingly.

## Conclusion

By integrating Flask-SQLAlchemy with Flask-Migrate, you can easily manage and apply database migrations in your Flask application. This allows you to evolve the database schema as your application grows and changes. Flask-Migrate simplifies the process by generating migration scripts automatically, making it a valuable tool for Flask developers.

Make sure to refer to the [official Flask-Migrate documentation](https://flask-migrate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for more details and advanced usage options.