---
layout: post
title: "[python] Installing Cython"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-01
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

Cython is a programming language that allows you to write Python code that can be compiled into fast C code. It is commonly used to optimize Python code and improve its performance. In this blog post, we will walk through the steps to install Cython on your machine.

## Table of Contents
- [What is Cython?](#what-is-cython)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Using pip](#using-pip)
  - [From source](#from-source)
- [Verifying the Installation](#verifying-the-installation)

## What is Cython? {#what-is-cython}

Cython is a superset of Python programming language that allows you to use static typing in your code and compile it to C for better performance. It combines the ease-of-use and flexibility of Python with the speed of C.

By using Cython, you can write Python code that executes faster than plain Python by adding static types, which allows the compiler to generate optimized C code.

## Installation {#installation}

There are multiple ways to install Cython, including using pip or building from source. We will cover both methods in the following sections.

### Using pip {#using-pip}

The easiest and recommended way to install Cython is by using pip, the package installer for Python.

To install Cython using pip, open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command:

```shell
pip install cython
```

This command will download and install the latest version of Cython from the Python Package Index (PyPI).

### From source {#from-source}

Alternatively, you can also install Cython from the source code repository. This method can be useful if you want to install a specific version or need to make modifications to the code.

To install Cython from source, follow these steps:

1. Clone the Cython repository from GitHub:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/cython/cython.git
```

2. Change to the cloned directory:

```shell
cd cython
```

3. Build and install Cython using the provided setup script:

```shell
python setup.py install
```

This will compile and install Cython on your system.

## Verifying the Installation {#verifying-the-installation}

To verify that Cython is installed correctly, you can use the following command to check its version:

```shell
cython --version
```

If the installation was successful, you should see the Cython version number printed in the console.

Congratulations! You have successfully installed Cython, and you are ready to start using it to optimize your Python code. Enjoy the improved performance that Cython brings to your projects!

Hopefully, this installation guide was helpful to you. Happy coding!