---
layout: post
title: "[python] Cython data types"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-01
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

Cython is a programming language that is a superset of Python, which means that it supports all the data types of Python, as well as additional data types for optimizing code performance. In this blog post, we will explore some of the data types available in Cython and how they can be used to write efficient code.

## 1. Primitive Data Types

Cython provides support for all the primitive data types of Python, such as `int`, `float`, `bool`, and `str`. These data types are similar to their counterparts in Python and can be used interchangeably. However, using Cython's specific data types can improve performance in certain cases.

## 2. C Data Types

Cython allows you to use C data types, such as `char`, `int`, `long`, `float`, and `double`. These data types can be used when performance is critical and you need to work with low-level operations. To use C data types in Cython, you need to import the `cdef` module.

```cython
from cpython cimport bool, int, long, double
```

## 3. Typed Memoryviews

Cython introduces a data type called `memoryview`, which provides a typed view of memory. This data type is similar to NumPy arrays but is more efficient and can be used with multiple C data types. Memoryviews allow you to perform low-level operations with arrays and can significantly improve code performance.

To use `memoryviews` in Cython, you can declare a variable with the `cdef` keyword and specify the data type and dimensions.

```cython
cdef int[:, ::1] arr
```

In the above example, `int[:, ::1]` represents a 2-dimensional array of integers with C-contiguous memory layout.

## 4. Arrays and Pointers

Cython allows you to work with arrays and pointers, which can be helpful when interacting with C libraries or performing low-level memory operations. You can declare arrays and pointers using the `cdef` keyword and the appropriate C data type.

```cython
cdef int arr[10]  # Array
cdef int* ptr     # Pointer
```

Cython also provides functions for memory allocation and deallocation, such as `malloc` and `free`, which can be used to allocate and release memory for arrays and pointers.

## 5. Structs and Unions

Cython allows you to define C-style structs and unions, which are useful when working with complex data structures. Structs can contain different data types, while unions can hold multiple variables that share the same memory space. To work with structs and unions in Cython, you need to import the `cpython.struct` module.

```cython
from cpython.struct cimport struct

cdef struct Point:
    double x
    double y
    double z
```

In the above example, we define a struct `Point` with three `double` members.

## Conclusion

Cython provides a wide range of data types that extend the capabilities of Python and enable low-level operations for performance optimization. By leveraging the specific data types available in Cython, you can write efficient code that combines the simplicity of Python with the performance of C.